.\" This definition swiped from the nmap(1) man page
.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH NSB 1
.SH NAME
nsb, nsbd \- Network Security Blanket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsbd
[-i interface] [-f configfile] [-p pidfile]
.br
[-v verbose] [-h help]
.SH DESCRIPTION

.I nsb
will listen on a network segment and watch all(?) traffic looking for
TCP connections.
.I nsb
decomposes each packet it pulls off the wire, looking for connections that are
explicitly allowed or denied based on its configuration file (see the section
.I Configuration File
for more information). If the packet matches criteria determined by the
configuration file to be unwanted,
.I nsb
will generate and send a TCP reset to both the source and destination hosts;
effectively terminating the connection.
.PP
.I nsb
can function as a crude network access control mechanism where router ACLs
or a firewall are not possible or practical.
.I nsb
can also function as a primitive intrusion detection system by sniffing
passively on a network in "stealth" mode using an interface without a bound
IP address.
.SH OPTIONS

You may run
.B nsbd -h
for a fairly thorough explanation of the available options and their uses.
.TP
.B \-i [interface]
Selects the interface for nsbd to listen on. By default, eth0 is used
.B (even if your system doesn't have an interface called eth0).
If you wish nsbd to sniff on another interface, specify one. For example,
to sniff on eth1:
.Sp
nsbd
.I \-i eth1 
.TP
.B \-f [configfile]
Specify the configuration file that nsbd reads its access control list from.
The default is ./default.cnf. To have nsbd read its access control list from
the file /etc/nsbd.conf:
.Sp
nsbd
.I \-f /etc/nsbd.conf
.TP
.B \-p [pidfile]
nsbd runs as a daemon. The process ID it runs under is written by default to
the file /nsbd.pid  To have nsbd write its process ID to the file
/var/tmp/nsbd.pid:
.Sp
nsbd
.I \-p /var/tmp/nsbd.pid
.TP
.B \-v
Enables verbose mode. nsbd will spam standard out with lots of information.
Obviously this should be used sparingly as it may degrade performance.
.TP
.B \-h
Prints out a summary of the above options and their uses.
.PP
.TP
.I Configuration File
nsb reads its access control list from a configuration file called by
default, ./default.cnf. This configuration file consists of rules that nsbd
uses to decide whether or not a connection it sees should be killed or allowed
to continue.
.Sp
The configuration file
.B must
contain at least one line with a default policy. The format of the default
policy is as follows:
.Sp
.B default:any default:any [ allow | deny ]
.Sp
The rest of the file should contain normal rules of the following format:
.Sp
.B hostA:portA hostB:portB policy
.Sp
.I hostA
and
.I hostB
can be either a valid IP address, or the special IP address 0.0.0.0 to specify
all hosts (a future release will support CIDR blocks).
.I portA
and
.I portB
can be singular port numbers (i.e., 21), a range of ports (i.e., 21-25), or any
of the following keywords:
.Sp
.B any
\- expands internally to the port range 0-65535.
.B low
\- expands internally to the port range 0-1023.
.B high
\- expands internally to the port range 1024-65535.
.Sp
Comments are supported on lines
.B beginning
with a "#".
.Sp
The
.I nsb
distribution comes with a sample configuration file with plenty of examples.
.SH BUGS
Right....... Please let us know when you find them.
.SH AUTHORS
.Sp
Chris Edge
.br
Mark Carey
.br
Paul Cardon
.SH DISTRIBUTION
The newest version of
.I nsb
can always be found at
.I http://www.lockitdown.com/nsb
.Sp
.I nsb
is (C) 1999, 2000 by WolfPak Enterprises, Inc.
.Sp
.I libpcap
is copyrighted by Van Jacobson, Craig Leres and Steven McCanne, all of the
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, CA.
The version distributed with
.I nsb
may have been modified. Original sources are available from
ftp://ftp.ee.lbl.gov/libpcap.tar.Z .
.Sp
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the file LICENSE in the
.I nsb
distribution for details.
